| **IMPORTANT UPDATE:** _Posted on 2014-11-18_ <br /><i>**Google Calendar Connector Sync Service relies on a deprecated version of the Google Calendar API and worked with Exchange 2003, a product that is no longer supported by Microsoft. On November 17th 2014, Google stopped servicing the deprecated Calendar API's requests causing this product to stop working. As a result, we have removed the Sync Service, however the Web Service should remain functional. Users that need Sync Service functionality should take one of the following options:**<ul></i><li>update to use the Calendar Interop functionality built into the Google Apps Admin Console with a supported version of Microsoft Exchange, or<li>use a custom-built connector that syncs with your version of Microsoft Exchange using the latest version of the Google Calendar API (v3 at the time of writing).</tbody></table>

The <a href='http://code.google.com/p/google-calendar-connectors/wiki/Overview'>Google Calendar Connectors</a> are a set of services that allow Google Calendar to interoperate with Exchange 2000, Exchange 2003 or Exchange 2007 servers through the bi-directional sharing of Calendar Free / Busy information. Each of the tools is installed in the local Exchange environment and must be maintained / configured by an Exchange Administrator.<br>
<br>
<b>February 2, 2011:</b> Version 1.3.1 of GCC Sync Service and Version 1.3.3 of GCC Web Service have just been released.<br>
<br>
This open source project is a developer and partner release and is not targeted for direct  customer or end-user installation.  The Google Calendar Connectors represent a set of tools and should not be considered native functionality of Google Apps Premier & Education Editions.<br>
<br>
<ul><li><b><a href='http://code.google.com/p/google-calendar-connectors/wiki/WebServiceGuide'>Google Calendar Connector Web Service</a></b>: This connector allows users in Google Calendar to see free/busy information for users who maintain their calendars in Exchange. It is a .NET web service that takes requests sent from the browser with Google Calendar and returns free/busy obtained from a Microsoft Exchange 2003\2007 server.</li></ul>

<ul><li><b><a href='http://code.google.com/p/google-calendar-connectors/wiki/SyncServiceGuide'>Google Calendar Connector Sync Service</a></b>: This connector allows users of Microsoft Exchange to see free/busy information for users who maintain their calendars in Google Calendar. It is a Windows Service that periodically queries the Google Calendar GData API to get updated free/busy information and publishes this information as free/busy information in Exchange.</li></ul>

Notice: The Google Calendar Connectors represent a set of tools for interoperation, and not a self-contained solution.  Bi-directional free/busy scheduling requires a Google Apps Premier Edition domain which has been enabled for calendar interoperability.<br>
<br>
A special thanks to Bill Mers for his contributions to the project.