#labels Featured
How To Build Google Calendar Connectors

= How To Build Google Calendar Connectors =
== Building Google Calendar Connector Web / Sync Service==

=== Prerequisites ===
  * Visual Studio 2005 (or later)
  * Install NUnit for running unit tests
  * Install Microsoft .NET Runtime 2.x
  
=== Build Steps ===
The Google Web Service and Sync Service are built using the _GoogleCalendarConnectors.sln Microsoft Visual Studio solution file. The _GoogleCalendarConnectorSyncService.installer_ and _GoogleCalendarConnectorWebService.installer_ projects will build the installers for the connectors. To run the unit tests, build the _unittests_ project and load the _/connectors/cs/src/VS2005/UnitTests/unittest.nunit_ config file into the NUnit GUI.

== Building Google Calendar Connector Plugin==

=== Prerequisites ===
  * Install JDK 6 or higher - Check http://java.sun.com for more details.
  * Install ANT - You need a recent version of ANT installed (1.7.0 or higher). If you have ant pre-installed on your machine, you can enter "ant -version" to check the version number. See http://ant.apache.org/manual/install.html for more details on how to successfully setup ANT.
  * Download Dependencies - This application depends on a couple external libraries and applications. Please read the MISSING.txt in
    * lib
    * antlib and
    * testlib
  and place the required files in those directories. Note that the files in antlib are optional, but you will have to delete the "JSmooth"-section from
  the build.xml if you choose not to use them.

=== Build Steps ===
The following ant commands should be useful:

  * ant compile (same as just running ant) - will compile the sources and place a jar file in the dist subfolder
  * ant test - will compile and execute the unit tests
  * ant dist - will build the windows executables and package them with the install/uninstall batchfiles and a sample config.txt (this OPTIONAL step will even work in a Linux build system, requires JSmooth)
  * ant doc - will create javadoc files
  * ant clean - remove all files created by the build script

For more information, check out the doc folder. Don't forget to also run "ant doc" for creating the javadoc.

== Submitting changes back to the project ==

If you've made improvements or fixed bugs in the connectors we'd appreciate your submission - just send a patch with the changes to one of the project owners. If you have large improvements to make, it may be a good idea to announce it in the Discussion Group before you spend a lot of time on it to make sure it fits in with the overall project goals.
